This sermon is brought to you by Buford Road Baptist Church, the speaker today as Pastor Tony Kahoot.
Well, we're in a new series.
Today is sermon number five and our series simply entitled Believe.
But I pray that it is a blessing to your heart because I'm trying my best to introduce to you Jesus in a way that you have never experienced Him.
And that might seem so odd.
because you've heard stories about Jesus all your life, those of you that have been in church for a long time.
And you might say, well, I know Him.
He's the Savior of the world.
He was virgin born, died on a cross, shed His blood, rose from the grave.
He promised to come back again.
But there's a whole lot more about Him that you can experience that will help you to understand His character.
His personality and so many different aspects.
And that's my goal for you to experience Jesus in a way that you never have.
Let me ask you this question today.
What would you say would be the greatest thing that you would desire more than anything on this earth?
What would it be?
Paul said my greatest desire, he said that all of Israel would be saved.
Moses had a desire.
He said that I would be willing to die and be accursed.
I would be willing to go to hell if it meant that for the salvation of my people.
God turned one day to Solomon and he said, what is it that I can do for you?
Ask anything of me.
What would it be?
And Solomon said, wow.
God, if I could have one thing my heart desires, it would be wisdom.
Because I don't know how to lead these people.
I don't know how to bring them in.
I don't know how to take them out.
And God, if there's nothing more that I would desire than for wisdom.
Because if that's the key that you desire, the Word says, you ask, you can get it.
But the thing that I want to stress to you this morning is this, that there is a big difference between the things you desire and the things that you need.
And that's what we're going to be talking about in this aspect of John chapter 2.
And I want you to experience Jesus today perhaps in a way that you never have.
And I want us to understand the differences now.
My life's verse, do you have one?
A verse that you have claimed to be your verse, that you have used all of your life, or maybe in recent years you said, oh, that's the one that fits me.
That speaks volumes of me.
That's for me.
My life's verse happens to be Psalms 37, verses three through five.
And it says, trust in the Lord and do good.
And so shall thou dwell in the land.
And verily thou shalt be fed.
Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of the heart.
Commit thy ways unto the Lord.
Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass."
So we understand what desires are.
in a godly sense, and then we understand what our needs are.
And we're going to talk about that.
And you may discover something about yourself this morning you never knew.
As we experience Jesus up close and personal.
So John chapter two, let's look at this.
I want to begin with verse number one.
I'm going to read verses one through 12.
And I'm speaking this morning on the subject.
Jesus knows our every need.
So believe and obey.
That's the title of our series, simply believe.
And so in the beginning of this, I want to read now, beginning with verse number one, John chapter two, verse number one.
And the third day, there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee.
And the mother of Jesus was there.
And both Jesus was called and his disciples.
to the marriage.
And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him.
Have you found something interesting so far?
We'll discover it in a moment.
They have no wine.
Jesus saith unto her woman, what have I to do with thee?
My hour has not yet come.
His mother saith unto the servants whatsoever.
He saith unto you, do it.
And there were set there six water pots of stone after the manner of the purifying of the Jews containing two or three firkins apiece.
Jesus saith unto them, Fill the water pots with water, and they filled them up to the brim.
And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast, and they bear it.
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine and knew not whence it was, or he didn't know where it came from, but the servants which drew the water knew, the governor of the feast called the bridegroom and sayeth unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine, and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse, but thou hast kept the good wine until now.
This beginning of miracles did Jesus and Cana of Galilee and manifested forth his glory, and his disciples believed on him.
After this, he went down to Capernaum, he and his mother and his brethren and his disciples, and they continued there not many days.
Now, there are several interesting observations as we travel through this story.
And I believe that we cannot go any further until we mention the fact that this story begins the earthly ministry of Jesus.
Now, up until now, the last time we hear of Jesus in the Scripture is when he was 12 years old teaching in the temple.
You see, we know about his birth.
He was born in Bethlehem of Judea.
And then we don't hear much about him until he was two years old.
And then from the age of two, we hear nothing about him until he was 12.
When he was 12, he was found in the temple.
He was teaching the doctors and the lawyers and the scribes, the Pharisees.
You know the story?
Joseph and Mary didn't know where he was.
He got lost in the crowd and in the panic, they found him teaching in the temple.
And then from the age of 12, we hear nothing in the Scripture at all about Jesus until right now.
Jesus now is 30 years old.
And this is when and where he begins his public ministry.
Now, his earthly ministry lasted for three and a half years.
And so this is the very beginning
of his earthly ministry.
And I think the happenings here enlightens us, informs us, and we are a little bit more broadened in the aspect of this very first miracle that he performed.
And by the way, every believer ought to know this is where he began his ministry, and this is what he did to begin it.
Everybody that is a believer
And there may be some in here today that does not know Christ.
I pray that this service would be enlightening and informative to you, as well as those of you that are watching by Internet.
You have to understand this is where it all began as far as his earthly ministry is concerned.
Now, this is one of the most interesting observations that I have.
And I think it's interesting to know that this very first miracle when you look at this of Jesus,
to place in the company, now get this, of an unknown couple.
Now, you might not have picked up on that as many times as you have read this story, but it's significant.
And it's interesting to me, and I think that perhaps it would be interesting to you.
It's an unknown couple.
And because the reason is this is the most happiest time
of life for this particular couple.
Yet, they are not named.
It's a mystery to us.
But I think one of the most interesting things about this also is this, that when Jesus began his public ministry, he started it or he began at a wedding.
But he concludes his earthly ministry at one of the saddest times of someone's life.
And that was Mary and Martha because their brother Lazarus had died.
So let me give you that again.
Jesus began his public ministry at a very happy time at a wedding.
He concluded his earthly ministry at a very sad time at the grave of Lazarus.
So when you think about that, it's an interesting observation and perhaps you did not know that about Jesus early on.
I think it's also interesting when you think about this wedding and you go all the way back to the Old Testament because the first miracle that Moses performed was him turning the water into blood.
And in comparison, the first miracle that Jesus performed
was him turning the water into wine.
But here is the background.
Jesus and his disciples, they were invited to a wedding at Cana.
And by the way, it was the hometown of Nathaniel.
This was about five miles from Nazareth.
I had the privilege to go to Cana of Galilee where this miracle took place.
In my last recent trip to the Holy Land, some of you here went with me.
We had just got back in February when everything started to break loose in the spring of last year.
And it was late in the evening.
The sun was going down in all of my years and all of my pilgrimages.
And I have been going since 1988.
I've never been to Cana of Galilee.
And we had the opportunity to do that.
It's a wonderful, beautiful place.
But now again, here in this story, we're not exactly sure who this wedding is for.
And I found that intriguing.
But without question, it was for a couple that Jesus was very fond of.
And I think it's understandable.
And you can recognize this.
It's understandable that Jesus was a very popular individual in the circle of his friends, but it was totally impossible for him to attend every wedding that he was familiar with the people.
It was totally impossible.
He could not attend them all, but I will tell you this.
I'm sure he was the center of them all.
Even though he could not be there for all of them,
He was, I'm sure, in the circle of his friends, he was the center of them all.
And by the way, this is a good place to mention this fact.
Marriage was God's idea in the first place.
And by the way, those of you that come in these doors, you know that we firmly believe that marriage is between a man and a woman.
And we believe that it is with a husband and a wife, and it's him and her.
and we're not going down the other road.
So we can see Jesus was an honored guest at this wedding.
I think we can also glean that probably Mary had a very close relationship with this particular couple as well.
Jesus, I'm sure, had many invitations to weddings, but He chose, and this is what the Holy Spirit has added in the Scripture, He chose this one particularly to attend.
No doubt Mary was very familiar with this particular couple because she's involved in many responsibilities to ensure that everything was going to run smooth.
Now here is the interesting thing.
When we think about the story and we meet Jesus in probably ways we've not considered him or thought of him.
As we were preaching before this particular series,
on the seven sayings of the cross.
Jesus spoke seven times when he was on the cross and we took seven Sundays and we developed a sermon for every one of those sayings on the cross.
But when we were speaking on those seven sayings, do you remember that Jesus spoke from the cross and he spoke to John?
He spoke to his mother.
In fact, when he spoke to his mother, he said, this woman, behold thy son.
And then when he spoke to John, he said, John, take care of mother.
I find it interesting that John, who is writing this particular story, he in this encounter does not mention Mary by name again.
In verse number one, he mentions her as the mother of Jesus.
Now, you think about that.
The mother of Jesus was there.
But while everything was running wide open, here's the deal now.
In the midst of the wedding ceremony and the reception and so forth, Mary comes running to Jesus with a problem.
In fact, in verse 3, the Bible says this, and when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus, look at that, saith unto him, they have no wine.
Now, I do not know how deep
You may have studied this particular story about the Lord Jesus and this particular miracle, the first miracle that He performed.
But as I look deeper into this situation, into this problem that this couple, this wedding was facing, it seemed on the surface that Mary did not do anything at all on her own to help fix this problem.
Even though I believe she was in charge,
of helping to ensure that everything was going to run smooth.
It seems as though she did not do anything on her own to fix it or address it.
I mean, I thought about the possibilities of her going to Peter in the frenzy on the side and walking up to Peter and saying, hey man, we got a problem.
And maybe whispering in his ear that, listen now, I need some help.
Jesus is busy.
Things are going on and happening.
The wine is getting low and we have a situation here, Peter.
I've pictured Mary in my mind maybe whispering in his ear and saying, listen, I need you to run up to Nazareth real quick and get some more.
And by the way, take Thomas with you.
I can see maybe I can envision something like that going on.
But the fact of the matter is it did not take Mary long.
Recognizing that there was a problem for her to immediately run to Jesus.
Now think about that.
And I want to ask you, how does that relate to you?
Every one of us in here today have needs.
You have desires.
You have things that you would like to accomplish and achieve.
You would like to experience and explore.
All of you have desires, goals, ambitions.
But all of us in here
likewise have needs.
I mean, things that are penetrating your soul and are weighing heavily on your heart and things are not going to be complete unless specific things are done.
I wonder how long does it take for you to take your problems to Jesus?
Mary recognized that
This situation was not going to work well.
No doubt there were perhaps hundreds of people attending this wedding.
Let me ask you the question, how bad does your circumstance have to get before you go to Jesus?
How bad does life have to get before you run and take your problems to Jesus?
How long do you give self effort before you realize that you need His help?
I think it's sad because some people believe that they can manhandle things all in themselves and it's a shame as believers when we have that invitation, God's word says, call unto me and I will answer the and show the great and mighty things.
And I think it's it's a poor reflection of our faith when we're facing perhaps some of the the biggest things that come against us in our soul and and things that
bombard us in our thoughts and weigh heavily on our hearts.
I think it's a shame, a poor testimony about our faith when we try to agonize needlessly and we wrestle with these things and we resort to the Lord in the end or even in the middle of the conflict.
And you know the old song.
Brother David was reminiscing on old songs this morning in Sunday school.
But here I'm thinking about the old, old him.
Oh, what peace we often forfeit.
Oh, what needless pain we bear.
All because we do not carry everything to God in prayer.
I think there are many times we have a reckless habit of eliminating God until we feel it is our very last ditch effort.
And all the while, God has extended us the invitation.
He says, calling to me.
And we're running around on a hamster's wheel and we're not making any progress and things are turning upside down.
I believe maybe somebody in here today or maybe somebody that's watching by internet.
Maybe you're experiencing something this morning that you are in a dire need and you feel that your life is just turned upside down.
Maybe you're in a panic mode.
Let me assure you of something.
God does not want you to be in a panic mode.
He wants you to be in a peace mode.
And you can have that.
We need to do...
Yes, listen, I don't want to confuse anybody.
We all need to do what we can.
We don't need to sit back and just say, okay, God, jump at it.
Okay, God, fix it.
The Word says, faith without works is dead.
And God does expect us to do the things that we can do.
But in the very beginning of situations in our life, and we really need to ask God, as the Scripture says for wisdom, let Him be your first option, not your middle, not your last.
Let Him be your first option.
Because listen, as a believer, you have firm Scriptures to stand on.
If you believe this Bible to be the verbal inspired Word of God, God breathes.
If you believe that this is God's word, God's holy word, then let me assure you, you have firm scriptures to stand on.
God has not left us in a dark world.
trying to pin the tail on the donkey, trying to feel our way and make things work.
God hasn't left us here like that.
He's given us a roadmap or compass.
He's given us His Word.
And if we as believers truly believe, honestly believe, from the top of our head to the sole of our feet, that this is God's Holy Word.
It's inerrant.
It's infallible.
It's inspired.
If we believe all of these things about the Word, then you have great scriptures to stand upon.
Hebrews 4.16, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in a time of need.
You can stand on that as a believer.
Psalms 46.1, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
Philippians 4.19, but my God shall supply all of your need according to His riches and glory by Christ Jesus.
You can stand upon that as a believer.
We have to remember that the Father knows our need.
even way before you know you need, before we know our need.
He knows all about it.
How can He do that?
He is omniscient.
He knows everything.
Matthew 6.8 says, Be not therefore alike unto them, for your Father knoweth what things you have need of before you ask.
Secondly this morning, and this is another very important thing to hold on to in the time of trouble.
And that is this, we have direct access to the Father through Jesus.
and can ask anything in His name.
Now, let me say again, one of my concerns is that, and I believe more too often, after desperation and after exhaustion and what seems to be dead-end places in our life, it's only then that we seek really God's counsel and His wisdom and His direction.
But if we can get the spiritual truth in our hearts and our life, listen to this.
The Heavenly Father invites us to bring our burdens and needs to the Lord way before our circumstances become too dire.
Long before you have sleepless nights, long before you have that nervous breakdown, long before you feel that you have no other place to turn, long before you have cried a river of tears.
God invites you in the very beginning.
I mean, sometimes it's discernment.
And let me say this.
God has given, I think, all of us a spirit of discernment.
But one thing that he has gifted women with especially is the gift of intuition.
It works like in Brother David, I was just telling him a few moments ago, it seemed like he had somehow given him my notes over the weekend because he seemed like he taught my entire
serving the day, but it's like this, and it truly is.
You didn't do that, did you?
All right.
So here's the thing.
And guys, I hate to put you on notice here, but let me tell you how the deal works.
Did you use the truck example this morning?
And it seemed like you didn't use that one.
Then I believe you.
OK.
You pass the dealership, and you see that truck out there that you want, and a man, you drooling over it.
And you've got to have it.
She doesn't know anything about trucks, and you begin to go through all this.
He's got that.
He's got this.
She listens to all of it, and she's at the end of the speech.
She says, I don't think so.
And you're saying, oh, you just busted my bow.
You just wrecked my worm.
You don't understand.
If I had this and that, it would do this and that.
And you're saying, no, and he's saying, why?
And then she says, I don't know.
I just feel.
What do you know about this?
And there it goes again.
And she says, I just feel.
Let me help you guys.
99% of the time.
that she says, I don't know.
I just feel she's right.
Because God, listen now, God has gifted and don't abuse this and don't misuse this ladies.
That's the best I can do for you, fellas.
But God has gifted women with the spirit of intuition.
Guys, sometimes we can't put our fingers on it.
And this thing about, I don't know, I just feel it, there's no logic to it.
But go with it.
A lot of times you will have discernment.
You'll be able to discern the different God.
That's what the Holy Spirit, when He comes in and He dwells us and He begins to fill us, He will.
Because the Bible says that He will guide us in all truth.
He will give you discernment.
You will be able to know.
where the lion is.
You'll be able to see it from afar.
You don't have to wait till you're dangling off the cliff.
And you've got one foot on and one foot off.
You don't have to wait till you get to that.
It's a dangerous place.
I remember one of the first years I went horseback riding with a man in a church.
We got to the peak of the mountains up at Pipestone, West Virginia.
Some of you guys were with me on that trip and the horse, the saddle came off.
on the edge of the cliff and by God's grace, as I was going over the mountain, I reached over and grabbed a vine.
As God is at my wit, some of you guys were here.
I'm hanging off the mountain with one hand.
Justin, were you on a trip?
Listen, when you're dangling off the mountain and you got one hand holding the vine,
That ain't a good spot to be in.
Sometimes, listen now, as a believer, God doesn't wait till we get in those situations to say, hey, wait a minute now, you're in trouble.
As a believer, the Holy Spirit gives us the ability to discern where the trouble is.
What I'm saying is this, we don't have to wait till we're hanging off the cliff.
before we begin to look to heaven and say, oh God, I'm in trouble.
I need your help.
The first thing we need to do is to call out to His name.
Some of you may say, you know, preacher, I've heard this thing about reach out to Jesus.
He's reaching back to you hundreds of times.
I just don't really know exactly how to do that.
You know what I do?
And I have a habit of this all day long.
And it kind of keeps Jesus on the front burner in my life, rather than the back burner.
And that says, I find myself randomly, many times during the day, just whispering, Jesus.
I can be in a restroom, whether it be in a restaurant here or at home, I can be washing my hands.
And I have a habit of just speaking His name.
There is power in His name.
You speak His name.
Demons have to flee.
The devil has to run.
Just speak His name.
You say, well, you're not asking Him for nothing?
No.
I'm not petitioning Him.
I'm not asking Him.
I'm just speaking, isn't it?
Jesus.
So if you don't know how to call out to Him, just try doing that.
Just practice that during that.
Just speak His name.
Jesus.
But then let me tell you something else that I think will help you and bless you.
And that is this.
I encourage you, I encourage every believer to get yourself a good prayer partner in the good seasons of your life.
And by that I mean this.
Because if you're not in trouble, you're headed for it, or either you're just coming out of it.
You're going to bounce into it or bounce an off of it at some point in your life, and you're going to need Him.
And you don't want to be hanging off the cliff with a vine.
Let me say this.
When you find yourself, because Ecclesiastes says it so well, to everything there is a season.
Sometimes there are seasons of good things in our life.
When we're at peace and when we're at calm,
And where we're being a blessing to others and there is no panic modes in our life and nothing stressing us at the moment.
That's very few far between, but sometimes are like that.
Let me encourage you to do this.
Get yourself a prayer partner in a good season of your life, not when you're hanging off the cliff on the vine.
But when things seem to be, well, find a prayer partner.
You say, well, what do you mean by that preacher?
I'm talking about there are certain times that things are going to be
so calm in your life that you're finding yourselves spending more time praying for others and doing for others rather than screaming and crying and begging, Oh God, help me.
I'm going down for the third time.
Find somebody in a good season of your life that you can resort to that that can be a prayer partner in your life.
And you say, why do you wait until then?
Because there are times in your life when your world is so chaotic,
and things are coming at you from every angle.
I mean, you've heard the saying, if it's not this, it's another you take one step forward and 10 step backwards.
And all of this commotion and hysteria is going on in your life.
Listen, there will be times that you can't pray.
You spoke of that this morning.
You don't know how to pray.
You just you just are too distracted.
You're angry.
You're too emotional.
And you're down to a place where you don't want to pray.
You don't know how to pray.
You can't pray.
And it's that point in time when you pick up the phone and you call your prayer partner that you selected in a good season of your life and say, I'm in trouble.
I have this need.
I cannot pray.
I'm too angry to pray.
I don't know what to pray, but I need you to pray.
And have somebody praying for you.
Because here's the verse in Romans 8.26.
Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit maketh intercessions, look at this, for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.
Everybody ought to have a safe prayer partner.
Back to the story now.
I want you to see what Jesus said to Mary in John 2.4.
He saith unto her, woman, what have I to do with thee?
My hour has not yet come.
And there are a couple of interesting things about these words of Jesus.
I want you to know especially the importance of this word hour.
If you have a custom of writing or marking in your Bibles, underline the word hour because Jesus spoke frequently about this word hour or this word time.
In John 7.6, Jesus said unto them, my time
Underline that is not yet come, but your time is always ready.
And then in chapter 8 of verse 20, these words speak Jesus in the treasury as he taught in the temple.
And no man laid hands on him for his hour.
Underline the word hour was not yet come.
In chapter 12 verse 23, Jesus answered them saying, the hour underlying that is come and the Son of man should be glorified.
in chapter 13 in verse number one.
Now, therefore, or before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour underlined that word, was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them unto the end.
Chapter 17 and verse number one, look at that.
These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour, look at that.
The hour is come.
Glorify thy Son.
that the Son may be glorified in things.
So what we notice here in this story is that the first mention of his hour, and he spoke about his hour many times, the first mention of his hour was spoken to his mother.
And the last mention of his hour was spoken to his father.
The first to his mother, the last to his father, everything that he did on earth had to do with this word, hour, his hour, his time.
Mary didn't understand the timings of God and his life, but Mary did accept the Lord's words.
And at the same time, Mary felt a huge responsibility in this matter.
These folks running out of the wine, the reception was now going south.
Now, look at this.
Think about this.
I don't know how long the reception, the Scripture doesn't say how long the reception was going to last.
Because it was a Jewish custom that a Jewish wedding reception could go on for days.
So when Mary hears that the wine is running short, she doesn't worry with Peter, she doesn't fool around with Thomas.
She goes immediately to the Lord Jesus, and so in a panic she turns to him
Now, even though this was the very first miracle Jesus performed as the Bible records, you have to remember something now.
Mary at this point, according to Scriptures, we're not told that she saw Jesus do any miracle before.
This was the very first miracle according to Scripture that we saw Jesus perform.
So Mary in her panic, unless Jesus did something that was supernatural out of the ordinary prior to this wedding, she hadn't seen Him do that.
All the things we know about that Jesus did, He healed the sick, He raised the dead, He opened blinded eyes, He cleansed the spot at the leper, He gave hearing to the deaf, He gave voice to the mute.
All of these things that he did, she hadn't seen him yet.
And so in her panic, she didn't bother Peter, didn't bother time.
In her panic, she runs straight to Jesus.
Now, what was it that caused her who had not yet seen the first miracle?
What was it that caused her to run to him?
It's curious.
I do wonder if he had
done something that had pricked her curiosity.
I mean, he was in charge and we have to keep in mind here that Joseph wasn't.
Joseph was not present here.
He was not here.
In fact, Joseph is not mentioned in any of the other miracles.
Joseph is not at the cross.
And here's the interesting thing.
You would think that if Jesus at his last earthly miracle, if Jesus had raised Lazarus from the dead,
Don't you think?
And we don't know.
We don't know what happened to Joseph.
The Bible is silent.
But I've often wondered about this because of Jesus knew that Joseph was sick and he was dying.
And if Jesus had compassion on his friend, he wept at the grave of Lazarus.
And I've often wondered if he raised Lazarus from the dead, then why didn't he raise his own
earthly father, Joseph, why didn't he bring him back to life?
That's a mystery about Jesus that I've often thought about.
If he raised Lazarus, then he should have raised Joseph.
It's just a human perspective.
But whatever reason it was, it wasn't God's plan that Jesus did.
Can you imagine the time that Jesus watched Joseph?
step from this earthly life into eternity, knowing that his mother would be here alone at the cross, and having to endure all of the public ridicule.
Jesus, who was God in the flesh, is watching now Joseph step from this earthly life into the realms of eternity.
And it makes me ponder two things about Jesus.
One is that
He has a different view of His life, this life, the life that Joseph was in.
He had a different view of that life and the next one than we do.
Because, listen, most of the time when we have a loved one that's about ready to cross and we fervently pray,
and we gather around their bedsides and we pray.
And even while they're traveling that road, we pray, God, if it be, you will turn it around.
God, if you be, you will raise them up.
You know, I can remember when my dad was about ready to cross and I got the call from my mother and he had fallen out in the floor and he couldn't get up and I called Adam to come over there and help me.
My dad had a stroke and I remember him.
Well, I can see him now laying out on the floor.
And I reached underneath him, I told Adam, I said, you're going to have to help me with every fiber of your soul.
And I spoke to Dad, and I said, Dad, I got to turn you over.
I said, I cannot lift you by myself, even with Adam's help.
I said, I'm going to set you up the best I can.
I want you to grab a hold of the bedpost.
I said, Dad, don't turn it loose.
And I remember we all worked together, all three of us, we got him up.
We got him to sit back on the bed, and he just fell back on the bed.
The rescue squad was on the way.
We got to the hospital.
He was confused.
He was thinking that dead relatives were coming to the hospital, and it was about a two-week stay in the hospital, and I could see the last few days of his life was just hollering in merciful cries.
And you know what?
I didn't pray for God to turn that around.
I said, oh God, I know whom I have elieved.
He's the one who taught me about you.
And I know he believes it.
And while he was lying there,
Adam and Danny, we were standing there in the bed.
I believe Gail was there.
I said, Dad, we put the recorder on and said, quote John 316.
I knew where he was going.
And I knew that life and eternity for him was going to be a whole lot better.
and him shackled to a bed going through this life.
And I also learned this, that God's will sometimes is not ours.
And Jesus was always totally submissive to the Father's will.
Now, we do know that Jesus wept at the grave of Lazarus.
But we don't know what happened to Joseph.
So when Jesus looks at Mary and he says that my hour has not yet come, God is always doing things right on time.
He's not in a hurry.
And that goes for you as well.
When we think God is four days late, remember, He's always right on time.
Galatians 4-4, but when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth the son made of a woman made under the law.
Romans 5-6, for when we were yet without strength in due time, Christ died.
for the ungodly.
And so Mary, she hears these words of Jesus, and she gives careful instructions to the servants.
I have to be quick.
In John 2.5, his mother saith unto his servants, what saith he?
Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it.
And by the way, I don't believe there are any greater words of instructions to a believer than what Mary said.
Get this.
She said,
Whatever he says, do it.
Is there anything better for a believer than those words?
Number three, with Jesus, we can ask anything, but here's the thing, friend.
We must yield everything.
The thing that will give you peace in your hour of need is this.
You have to recognize that Jesus knows exactly what's best, what's right, and what's proportioned for everything that you need.
And it will always be true in the best of times in your life and even in the most vulnerable times.
He knows what's best.
He knows what's right.
He knows the proportion that you need.
Now, I don't know what these servants had expected Jesus to do, but I guarantee you it wasn't what he was about to do.
I wonder what would happen if two things did not happen.
I mean, number one, if Mary had not come to Jesus, if she had gone to Peter,
And number two, if the servants hadn't obeyed.
So think about it.
Mary hadn't gone to Jesus and the servants hadn't obeyed.
Who knows what Jesus would have done.
He knew all things.
But what we do know is this that He did use Mary's request and the obedience of the servants.
So let me say this and never forget it.
You will always be on the safe side when you're walking in the obedience of Jesus always.
I can tell you that there have been places in my life that obedience has been exciting, scary, and inconvenient.
And you will experience those things as well.
Have you ever had, by conviction, have you ever had the Holy Spirit come to you in such a way that you felt like He was pointing His finger in your chest?
And he says, repent.
Or have you ever had the Holy Spirit come to you and have him point his finger and you could feel it.
You just feel it.
And it was like he was saying, confess.
Confess.
Or maybe he's saying,
Pastor, deal with this issue.
I had a preacher call me late Friday night, hundreds of miles from here.
He said, Brother Tony said, I need your help.
I need your help right now.
He began to tell me the trouble with the problems.
And it was late.
I had taken the phone in the next room.
And I listened to the trouble, listened to the problem.
And I said this, it's going to cost you something, it won't cost you something.
Because what you've got to do is not easy.
What you've got to do is not comfortable.
But you've got to do it.
Sometimes the Holy Spirit pricks us with hard things, difficult things, things that make life totally
unbearable for us.
I mean, it's a scary place when you know that what you are about to do is going to hurt somebody, not intentionally, not in malicious ways.
But maybe listen to this, maybe you've got to ask for forgiveness.
And in order to ask for forgiveness, you know, it's going to rip some old wound open.
But when Jesus speaks, listen, he's always working and he's always sure he's always right on time.
Try your best to remember this, that
Jesus was not surprised when He turned the water into wine, and He will not be surprised when your confession leads to freedom.
And I want our musicians to come.
I don't have time to finish this sermon today.
But I do want to give you point four real quick.
It fell off somehow in the print.
I want to give you this real quickly here.
This is the last thing that I want to talk to you about.
Number four.
So what does it really mean to believe?
James 2, verse 14 through 20, what doth it profit my brethren, though a man say you have faith and have not works?
Can faith save him?
If a brother or sister be naked or destitute of daily food?
And one of you say unto them, depart in peace, be you warmed and filled, not withstanding, you give them not those things which are nevel to the body, what doth it profit?
Even so, faith.
If it hath not works, it is dead being alone.
Yea, ye men, may say thou hast faith, and I have works.
Show me thy faith without works, and I will show thee my faith by my works.
Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well.
The devils also believe in tremble, but will thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead.
And so according to James, to believe means this, that Jesus has become a hinge pin in our life and not an add-on.
He's not a tag along.
He isn't an obligation.
He's everything.
And when we see Him like this and we're willing to hand over everything to Him, when we acknowledge that He's worthy of every single element of our life, and nothing is withheld, nothing.
I don't care what you're going through today.
Listen, it may be devastating.
And you've talked to your prayer partner.
Maybe you've even seen your doctor.
You've taken your medication.
You've had family meetings.
You've done everything you know that you can possibly do.
You have to understand something.
Don't put Jesus on the end of that.
put him right here.
And here's what you'll find out.
With him, all things are possible.
You listen to Pastor Tony Kahoot.
For more information, visit our website at Buford Road Baptist Church dot com.